# Kultra-Mega-Stores-sales-Analysis
 Headquartered in LAGOS, Kultra Mega Stores (KMS) specializes in office supplies and furniture. The company's customers range from individual consumers and small businesses (retail), to corporate organizations (wholesale) located in the LAGOS, Nigeria.
 
 # Case Scenario I 
 Case 1:Which product category had the highest sales? 
 Case 2: What are the Top 3 and Bottom 3 Regions with regards to sales? 
 Case 3: What was the total sales of appliances in Ontario? 
 Case 4: Advise the management of KMS on what to to do to increase the revenue from the bottom 10 customers 
 Case 5: KMS incurred the most shipping cost using which shipping method? 
 Case 6: Who are the most valuable customers and what do they purchase? 
 
 # Case Scenario II 
 Case 7: If the delivery truck is the most economical but the slowest shipping method and Express Air is the fastest but the most expensive one, do you think the company appropriately spent shipping costs based on the Order Priority? Explain your answer 
 Case 8: Which small business customer had the highest sales? 
 Case 9: Which Corporate Customer placed the most number of orders in 2009 – 2012? How many orders were placed by the Corporate customer? 
 Case 10: Which consumer customer was the most profitable one? Thank you! selected.

  # Data cleaning 
 Cleaned the datasets to remove duplicates and check for missing values and errors, formatted the table and other metrics needed before analysis was carried out. Made use of the following tools and functions for data cleaning.
 ● Pivot Tables and Charts 
 ● Lookup functions like INDEX - MATCH 
 ● Used clear and meaningful headings and labels 
 ● Used an appropriate number format
 
 # Data Analysis
Total revenue $2.3million Total profit $286.40k which is 12.5% of revenue Average revenue $229.86k Average profit $28.66k There were 17 sub-categories with a total of 9, 994 orders.

# General analysis
Top 10 customers by profit
Tamara Chand emerged as the customer who brought the most profit for the company with a profit of $ 8,981.32 amounting to 31% of the total profit. Tamara Chand might be a loyal customer or bulk buying customer. However, it doesn’t indicate so when we analyzed the customer with the most discount.

# Customer with the highest discount
It is shown that Zuschuss Caroll is the customer who enjoys discounts the most with a value of 7.9%. This could be due to her bulk purchases or her loyalty to the company.

# Highest order by region
The western region had the highest order of 3,200,000 orders which amounts to 32% of total orders. This could be that more supply of consumables since consumables had the the highest number of customers as shown below.

# Highest number of customers by segment
The consumer had the highest number of segments with a large share of 52%. This is probably due to the higher demand for consumables which are necessities consumers need in their daily lives.

# Highest sales by shipping mode
Most of the total sales were generated by standard class shipping mode because most customers preferred to use this shipping mode unlike same day shipping mode which was the least. This is probably one of the reasons why standard shipping incurred the highest cost aside from demand.

# Category with the highest profit by year, Category by total Sales, Category by total cost
In 2011, office supplies and technology had about the same profit amounting to $20k which indicates an increase by 42.4% by 2014. This might be due to both categories hitting almost the same sales and also incurring almost the same costs in that year. Although Furniture also incurred almost the same costs in the year, it was not the
case for its profits and sales.

In 2014, the profits of technology increased to about $50.7k from the initial $20k in 2011, this represents a 42.4% increase in profit. The probable cause of this may have been the ability to resell technology and software as a subscription service per user, without having to build from scratch as opposed to other products like office supplies and furniture.

In the same year, office supplies realized a profit of $39.8k which represents a 43% increase from 2011. The probable cause of this could be the ability of new employees to use the general supplies purchased by each company, as opposed to purchasing new office supplies per individual. In general, technology realized a profit of $145.5k between 2011 and 2014, while furniture had a total profit of $18451.373k. This brings us to the conclusion that technology generated about 51% of profits for the company compared to furniture.

From the year 2011 to 2014, the total sales realized from the technology category was $836,154.03k while that of furniture was $719,047.03k. The difference in the total sales between these two categories is $117,107. Although from the sales figures, we may deduce that the difference in sales between these two categories is not very high, we now understand that the profits realized from these two categories were significantly different, with technology being a better product to sell.

Looking at the cost of the categories, our data shows that it costs $836k for technology which realized a profit of 145.5k, while furniture costs $742k and a profit of $185k. The probable cause for the company’s choice to continue with the business of producing and selling the furniture may be having inadequate information or data or knowing that the sale of office furniture may help drive the sale of technology and office supplies.

# Average profit by month
We looked at the profits realized in each month from 2011 to 2014 and the data shows that the company experienced the worst business period in January of 2012. There was about $56.57 recorded loss. The month of July also recorded a loss of $5.88. The probable cause of this may have been a loss of a customer’s account/business or fewer office activities due to a public holiday or office break. The months of April, May, June, and September recorded stability throughout these years. March of 2012 and October of 2013 recorded profits of $72.03 and $82.97 in profits respectively. These are outliers when compared to the data available for the other
months. The probable cause of this may have been a busy business period with fewer or no public holidays. Other probable causes may have been the acquisition of a new
customer or an increase in orders by an existing customer. In summary, the data shows that 2013 had the best-recorded profits when compared month on month, with $31.68 while 2011 was the lowest with $24.86. This is a difference of $6.82.

# Conclusion and Recommendation
In conclusion, our data infers that investing more in the technology category will help to boost the total profit and growth of the company if they are profit-driven. This does not imply that they drop the sales of the other categories as we are aware that in business, the sale of some items may drive the sale of others. They may consider investing more in the category that generates more profits which may enable them to grow and scale faster. Additionally, the company might want to look to expanding to other region since the western region already had a lot of awareness about their products. More so, the customer who brings in the highest profit should enjoy the most discounts if we take a look from the profit perspective.
